---
title: 'My #ESA2012 Monday'
author: Jarrett Byrnes
date: '2012-08-06'
categories:
  - meetings
slug: my-esa2012-monday
---

For the next few days, I'll be trying to focus on two areas - 1) climate change & community responses and 2) biodiversity-ecosystem function - with probably a little network ecology thrown in for good measure.  I'll be posting my schedule here not because I want you to stalk me, but rather because it will be a convenient place for me to pull up on my phone to know where I'm going to go next!  So, after much back-and-forth on conflicting talks, here's my tentative subject-to-change-if-I-missed-something schedule.  Also, this Monday looks hectic.  I may end up missing some of this...

11:30 - 1:15 WK 27 - Social Media for Collaboration, Outreach and Impact F151, Oregon Convention Center Organized by: S Chung, JL Gill
The rapid growth of social media tools and online communities dovetails neatly with increasing need for effective collaboration and outreach in science. This session includes case studies, live demos and best practices for the strategic use of social media and other online tools to improve scientific collaboration, education and outreach.

1:30 COS 8-1	Wootton, JT and	CA Pfister, University of Chicago. Experimental separation of genetic and demographic factors on extinction risk in free-living populations of an exploited species. D136

1:50 COS 11-2	Abbott,	JM1,	JJ	Stachowicz2	and	AR Hughes3, (1)University California, Davis, (2)University of California, Davis, (3)Florida State University. The role of genetic relatedness and trait similarity in the outcome of pairwise interactions between genotypes of eelgrass (Zostera marina). D139

2:30 OOS1-4 Green, RO, Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Observing global biodiversity and ecosystem function from space. B116

2:50 COS 11-5	Hedin, LO, Princeton University. Do we need individual organisms in ecosystem models?. D139

3:20 COS 8-6	Goldstein, MC, M Rosenberg and L Cheng, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego. Increased abundance and ecological implications of plastic microdebris in the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre. D136

3:40 COS 11-7	Bracken, MES, JG Douglass and GC Trussell, Northeastern University. Changes in the functional consequences of biodiversity loss along a latitudinal gradient. D139

4:00 COS 2-8	Isbell, FI, D Tilman, S Polasky and S Binder, University of Minnesota. Hysteresis indicates critical transition from diverse to depauperate grasslands. B112

4:20 COS 21-9 Foufopoulos, J1, P Pafilis2, E Valakos2 and NM Anthony3, (1)University of Michigan, (2)University of Athens, (3)University of New Orleans. Interactive effects of marine subsidies, herbivory, and predation in island lizards. Portland Ballroom 258

4:40PM COS 2-10	Mariotte, P1, C Vandenberghe1, F Hagedorn2 and A Buttler1, (1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne & Swiss Federal Institute of Forest, Snow and Landscape Research (WSL), Lausanne, (2)Swiss Federal Institute of Forest, Snow and Landscape Research (WSL). Subordinate plant species enhance community insurance to drought in semi-natural grasslands. B112

[viagra en espana](http://viagracomprar24.com/)
